ADR #9 Git Workflow (#692)
raft-tech/TANF-app: docs/Architecture Decision Record/009-git-workflow.md

2. If working locally, run `git pull`
3. Check out new feature branch `git checkout -b <BRANCH NAME>`
4. Update the repo with code, documentation, etc.
5. If working locally, run `git push origin <BRANCH NAME>`
6. Create [a draft pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#draft-pull-requests) from new branch to `raft-tdp-main`. The PR title should include WIP e.g. `WIP: Adding a feature` (If your work is dependent on another branch that has yet to be merged, issue the pull request against that branch)
8. Implement, Test, Review work independently
9. When finished: 
    * Update the Pull Request Template
    * Add in-line comment to the file changes to provide context for the proposed changes
    * Ensure there are no merge conflicts 
    * Ensure CI/CD pipelines are green
    * Update the title to remove `WIP`, change the PR to [Ready for Review](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request), assign label `raft-review`.

>     * If your PR is against a branch other than `raft-tdp-main` keep it as a draft PR until the other branch is merged. 

Reviewer: Does it also make sense to add a tag such as `blocked` or `has PR dependency` to these?

Author: We do have a `blocked` tag, so that would make sense

13. Assign a reviewer: 
    * For development work, assign **at least two** Raft developers with one of them being `carltonsmith` or `jtwillis92` (**but not both**).
    * For research and design assign `shubhi-raft` and `jenewingpierce`
    * For security controls assign `carltonsmith`

>     * For documentation submitted by OFA and 18F tag `lfrohlich` and `adpennington` and remove label `raft-review`

Reviewer 2: I don't quite understand this. Is this something @kniz-raft should be part of?

>     * For documentation submissions and updates by raft assign `lfrohlich` and `adpennington`

Reviewer 2: I don't quite understand this - 43 and 44 lines. Is this something @kniz-raft should be part of?

Author: That would make sense. I was under the impression that documentation changes usually went straight to gov review, we could definitely change that part of the flow to ask Kati to review it

Reviewer 3: I've been making a lot of document submissions myself (sprint summaries, updates to how we work, etc) so not sure if I should be the reviewer if I'm also the contributor.

Author: The system won't allow you to approve your own pull request. I would imagine in that case you could ask @jenewingpierce or @shubhi-raft

Reviewer 2: Got it. So to clarify replace 
>For documentation submissions and updates by raft assign `lfrohlich` and `adpennington`

with 
> For documentation submissions and updates by raft assign `lfrohlich` and `adpennington` and add QASP review label

Author: This is done

>     * For documentation submissions and updates by raft assign `lfrohlich` and `adpennington`

Reviewer 2: @carltonsmith can you please change this to 
>For documentation submissions and updates by raft assign `lfrohlich` and `adpennington` and add QASP review label

Author: This is done

14. For PRs with `raft-review` label, the appropriate reviewer performs the review and/or requests changes. **SLA** 3 days: 2 days to perform the review and 1 day to implement the requested changes. 
    * When changes are asked for, the changes are made by the contributor
15. When satisfied, the reviewer 
    * `approves` the PR
    * removes `raft-review` label
    * adds `qasp-review` label
    * assigns 18F/HHS as the reviewer:
        * For backend development work assign `alexsoble`, `adpennington` and `lfrohlich`
        * For frontend work, assign the same as backend work but also include `iamjolly` for a11y review
        * For research and design work assign `lfrohlich`
        * For security controls assign `hursey013` and `lforhlich`

> 18. For PRs with `qasp-review` label, the appropriate reviewer performs the review and/or requests changes. **SLA** 5 days: 3 dayes to perform the review and 2 days to implement the requested changes.

Reviewer 3: Typo on the SLA section (dayes to days)

Author: This is fixed

# 1. Record architecture decisions

Date: 2021-02-23

## Status

Pending

## Context

In order to maintain the principal of Least Privilege, it was decided at the onset of this project that the vendor (Raft) would work from a fork of the government repo and issue pull requests to the government repo from the fork. The vendor would not have write access to the government repository or the government's CircleCI account.

> Throughout the project all vendor development work has been done in the vendor's forked repository, while pull requests from the government (OFA and 18F) and even some documentation pull requests from the vendor were made directly to the government repository.

Reviewer 4: throughout this documentation, we recommend replacing references to "OFA/HHS + 18F" with the Government.

Author: This is done

    * For development work, assign **at least two** Raft developers with one of them being `carltonsmith` or `jtwillis92` (**but not both**).
    * For research and design assign `shubhi-raft` and `jenewingpierce`
    * For security controls assign `carltonsmith`
    * For documentation submitted by OFA and 18F tag `lfrohlich` and `adpennington` and remove label `raft-review`
    * For documentation submissions and updates by raft assign `lfrohlich` and `adpennington` and add label `QASP review`
14. For PRs with `raft-review` label, the appropriate reviewer performs the review and/or requests changes. **SLA** 3 days: 2 days to perform the review and 1 day to implement the requested changes. 
    * When changes are asked for, the changes are made by the contributor
15. When satisfied, the reviewer 
    * `approves` the PR
    * removes `raft-review` label
    * adds `qasp-review` label
    * assigns 18F/HHS as the reviewer:
        * For backend development work assign `alexsoble`, `adpennington` and `lfrohlich`
        * For frontend work, assign the same as backend work but also include `iamjolly` for a11y review
        * For research and design work assign `lfrohlich`

>         * For security controls assign `hursey013` and `lforhlich`

Reviewer 4: update with "lfrohlich" here :)

Author: This is done

> 18. For PRs with `qasp-review` label, the appropriate reviewer performs the review and/or requests changes. **SLA** 5 days: 3 days to perform the review and 2 days to implement the requested changes.

Reviewer 4: We recommend dropping the SLAs around qasp-review for now (herein and in the diagram), but would like to continue syncing up with the team to be sure the work and reviews are moving forward at a good pace...and maybe we set these timeframes together as the need arises. Happy to discuss more; let us know if you have questions or more context on these.

Author: This has been updated to "GOAL" as per our discussion. I've updated the verbiage on the raft side as well for the sake of consistency.

    * When changes are asked for, the changes are made by the contributor. Raft reviewers should internalize the changes asked by 18F/HHS such that the same feedback is already incorporated and/or caught in future (continuous improvement)

>     * When security controls are approved, additional reviews are asked for by OCIO

Reviewer 4: let's be sure that our friends in OCIO have access rights to this repo. @lfrohlich @alexsoble @carltonsmith how much context would they need about this change (if any)?

Author: I believe if we were to explain that we are moving work to the raft repository to resolve some Git issues that arise from working separately, they would be amenable. I just need to get their GitHub usernames to give them review access here.

Reviewer 4: got it. sounds good!

> 19. When satisfied, the 18F/HHS/OCIO reviewer `approves` the PR

Reviewer 4: can we clarify here and throughout that PRs with the qasp-review label will be approved according to the qasp-checklist?

Author: No problem. Would probably be easiest to make a **Notes** section at the bottom and add it there, rather than adding more verbiage to each line. Thoughts?

Author: I added the Notes section with the appropriate update. Please let me know if there is another way you would prefer for us to address this.

- Less complexity for developers, reviewers
- No need to rebase from HHS back to `raft-tdp-main`
- Much smaller chance of needing to revert commits to `HHS:main`
- Git history will be much cleaner
- Much less time managing git history
- All reviews will be in one place, so the entire history of a branch/PR will be viewable in one place
- Will allow us to keep the current CircleCi setup
  - Once staging is in place, we can deploy to the development server when code is merged in to `raft-tdp-main` and test deployment ahead of opening a PR to `HHS:main`
- We can implement it almost immediately
- We can implement GitHub Hooks to automatically issue PRs to `HHS:main` when one is merged to `raft-tdp-main`
- Maintain "Least Privelege" by restricting vendor from having write access to Gov repo and CircleCI
- Tests automated deployment before merging to `HHS:main`

**Cons**
- Only one pull request at a time will be able to go to `HHS:main`, but this won't be a problem since they will only be issued once approved and therefore can be merged immediately

> - All PR comments will be on the vendor repo rather than the government repo

Reviewer 4: appreciate the recommendations presented during the mtg re: carrying over PR comments! think we agreed that developing a more automated solution is something we could revisit down the road. Is this right? Still, it'd be great to have any suggestions you might have on more manual alternatives we could consider and implement in the meantime.

Author: Yes, this is something we can definitely investigate. I'm not sure if there is a manual way to move commentary but we can certainly look into it!

Reviewer 4: sounds good. and ill look into this too. one suggestion @alexsoble floated was maybe linking PRs across repos. im not too familiar (yet) with the mechanics of that though. and for what it's worth, this is considered relatively low priority investigations from our end.

Author: It would be easy enough to add a link from the PR to HHS, certainly

8. Implement, Test, Review work independently
9. When finished: 
    * Update the Pull Request Template
    * Add in-line comment to the file changes to provide context for the proposed changes
    * Ensure there are no merge conflicts 
    * Ensure CI/CD pipelines are green
    * Update the title to remove `WIP`, change the PR to [Ready for Review](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request), assign label `raft-review`.
    * If your PR is against a branch other than `raft-tdp-main` keep it as a draft PR and add the tag `blocked` until the other branch is merged. 
13. Assign a reviewer: 
    * For development work, assign **at least two** Raft developers with one of them being `carltonsmith` or `jtwillis92` (**but not both**).
    * For research and design assign `shubhi-raft` and `jenewingpierce`
    * For security controls assign `carltonsmith`

>     * For documentation submitted by the Government tag `lfrohlich` and `adpennington` and remove label `raft-review`

Reviewer 5: I'm a bit confused. if the documentation is submitted by the government (which will soon just be me at @ADPennington ), why would we also be reviewers? Or does this presume the documentation is submitted by 18F and reviewed by OFA?

Author: This is just because every PR needs to be approved, and you don't need our approval for your documentation changes. The assumption is that if you put in a change, @ADPennington would review it, and if she put in a change, you would review it.

Reviewer 5: ah ok. got it -- thanks!

    * For documentation submissions and updates by raft assign `lfrohlich` and `adpennington` and add label `QASP review`
14. For PRs with `raft-review` label, the appropriate reviewer performs the review and/or requests changes. **GOAL** 3 days: 2 days to perform the review and 1 day to implement the requested changes. 
    * When changes are asked for, the changes are made by the contributor
15. When satisfied, the reviewer 
    * `approves` the PR
    * removes `raft-review` label
    * adds `qasp-review` label
    * assigns the Government as the reviewer:
        * For backend development work assign `alexsoble`, `adpennington` and `lfrohlich`

>         * For frontend work, assign the same as backend work but also include `iamjolly` for a11y review

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        * For frontend work, assign the same as backend work but also include `iamjolly` and `ttran-hub` for a11y review
```

Author: This is done

        * For research and design work assign `lfrohlich`

>         * For security controls assign `lforhlich`

Reviewer 5: please change to "lfrohlich"

Author: This is done

18. For PRs with `qasp-review` label, the appropriate reviewer performs the review and/or requests changes. **GOAL** 5 days: 3 days to perform the review and 2 days to implement the requested changes.
    * When changes are asked for, the changes are made by the contributor. Raft reviewers should internalize the changes asked by the Government such that the same feedback is already incorporated and/or caught in future (continuous improvement)

>     * When security controls are approved, additional reviews are asked for by OCIO

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    * When security controls are approved by the Government, the Government reviewer will ask for additional reviews to be performed by OCIO
```

- Will allow us to keep the current CircleCi setup
  - Once staging is in place, we can deploy to the development server when code is merged in to `raft-tdp-main` and test deployment ahead of opening a PR to `HHS:main`
- We can implement it almost immediately
- We can implement GitHub Hooks to automatically issue PRs to `HHS:main` when one is merged to `raft-tdp-main`
- Maintain "Least Privelege" by restricting vendor from having write access to Gov repo and CircleCI
- Tests automated deployment before merging to `HHS:main`

**Cons**
- Only one pull request at a time will be able to go to `HHS:main`, but this won't be a problem since they will only be issued once approved and therefore can be merged immediately
- All PR comments will be on the vendor repo rather than the government repo

**Recommendations for how to get there**
- Merge/Close all [HHS PRs](https://github.com/HHS/TANF-app/pulls) by **figuring out when all can be merged** so that we can start with the process described above
- Do not merge anything directly to HHS:main. All PRs into HHS:main should come from raft-tech/raft-tdp-main unless absolutely needed.

## Notes

> - All Pull Requests with the `QASP Review` label will be approved against the QASP Checklist

Reviewer 4: 👍🏾
